Add Deployment Solutions for Multi-Data Centers in One City (#2936)
pingcap/docs: multi-data-centers-in-one-city-deployment.md

---

> title: Deployment Solution for Multiple Data Centers in One City

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Multiple Data Centers in One City Deployment
```

> summary: Learn the deployment solution for multi-data centers in one city.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: Learn the deployment solution to multi-data centers in one city.
```

> category: how-to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
category: tutorials
```

> aliases: ['/docs/dev/how-to/deploy/geographic-redundancy/overview/','/docs/dev/geo-redundancy-deployment/']

Reviewer: ```suggestion
aliases: ['/docs/dev/how-to/deploy/geographic-redundancy/overview/','/docs/dev/geo-redundancy-deployment/','/tidb/dev/geo-redundancy-deployment']
```

---

> # Deployment Solution for Multiple Data Centers in One City

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Multiple Data Centers in One City Deployment
```

![Read Performance Optimized 3-DC Deployment](/media/deploy-3dc-optimize.png)

**Advantages:**

The cluster's read performance and the capability to get TSO are improved. A configuration template of scheduling policy is as follows:

```shell
-- Evicts all leaders of other DCs to the DC that provides services to the application.
config set label-property reject-leader LabelName labelValue

-- Migrates PD leaders and sets priority.
member leader transfer pdName1
member leader_priority pdName1 5
member leader_priority pdName2 4
member leader_priority pdName3 3
```

**Disadvantages:**

- Write scenarios are still affected by network latency across DCs. This is because Raft follows the majority protocol and all written data must be replicated to at least two DCs.

> - The TiDB server is in one DC.

Author: As confirmed with @WentaoJin, `TiDB Server 数据中心级别单点` means exactly `The TiDB server that provides services is only in one DC.` in this comment.

TiKV-35   ansible_host=10.63.10.35     deploy_dir=/data/tidb_cluster/tikv  tikv_port=20170   tikv_status_port=20180 labels="zone=z2,dc=d1,rack=r1,host=35"
TiKV-36   ansible_host=10.63.10.36     deploy_dir=/data/tidb_cluster/tikv  tikv_port=20170   tikv_status_port=20180 labels="zone=z2,dc=d1,rack=r2,host=36"
TiKV-37   ansible_host=10.63.10.36     deploy_dir=/data/tidb_cluster/tikv  tikv_port=20170   tikv_status_port=20180 labels="zone=z2,dc=d1,rack=r2,host=37"

TiKV-38   ansible_host=10.63.10.38     deploy_dir=/data/tidb_cluster/tikv  tikv_port=20170   tikv_status_port=20180 labels="zone=z3,dc=d1,rack=r1,host=38"
TiKV-39   ansible_host=10.63.10.39     deploy_dir=/data/tidb_cluster/tikv  tikv_port=20170   tikv_status_port=20180 labels="zone=z3,dc=d1,rack=r1,host=39"
TiKV-40   ansible_host=10.63.10.40     deploy_dir=/data/tidb_cluster/tikv  tikv_port=20170   tikv_status_port=20180 labels="zone=z3,dc=d1,rack=r2,host=40"
TiKV-41   ansible_host=10.63.10.41     deploy_dir=/data/tidb_cluster/tikv  tikv_port=20170   tikv_status_port=20180 labels="zone=z3,dc=d1,rack=r2,host=41"

## Group variables
[pd_servers:vars]
location_labels = ["zone","dc","rack","host"]
```

> In the example above, `zone` is the logical availability zone level and used to control the isolation of replicas (currently three replicas are in the cluster).

Author: @lilin90 As confirmed with @WentaoJin, `layer` should be used here.

Considering that the DC might be scaled out in the future, the three-layer label structure (`dc`, `rack`, `host`) is not directly adopted. Assuming that `d2`, `d3`, and `d4` are to be scaled out, you only need to scale out the DCs in the corresponding availability zone and scale out the racks in the corresponding DC.

If this three-layer label structure is directly adopted, after scaling out a DC, you might need to use a new label and data in TiKV as a whole needs to be rebalanced.

### High availability and disaster recovery analysis

> The deployment solution for multiple DCs in one city guarantees when one DC fails, the cluster can automatically recover services without manual intervention. Data consistency is also guaranteed. Note that scheduling policies help optimize performance. But when failure occurs, these policies prioritize availability over performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The multiple DCs in one city deployment can guarantee that if one DC fails, the cluster can automatically recover services without manual intervention. Data consistency is also guaranteed. Note that scheduling policies are used to optimize performance, but when failure occurs, these policies prioritize availability over performance.
```
